# Cancer risk factors analysis in New Zealand

This project analyzes the correlation between cancer incidence rates and associated risk factors by wrangling data on cancer incidence in New Zealand and relevant risk factors.

Author: Todd (Zhen) Zhang, Shubo Feng, Dan Wei, Zichen Zhou

# Project Directory Structure
```bash
.
├── 1.1 Data_wrangling_Cancer_Data_Julila.ipynb #Julia for cancer data wrangling
├── 1.2 Data_wrangling_Risk_Factors_R.ipynb #R for risk factors data wrangling
├── 2. Cancer overview analysis-R.ipynb #R for cancer data overview analysis and visualization
├── 3.1 Correlation analysis and visualization.ipynb #R for risk factors correlation analysis and visualization
├── 3.2 Visualization_Julia-Copy1.ipynb #Julia for correlation analysis visualization
├── 4. Report.Rmd #Report Rmarkdown
├── 4. Report.pdf #Report Rmarkdown
├── 5. Data documentation.pdf #Detailed raw and clean data documentation
├── 6. CancerRF.pptx 
├── 7. Project Diary.Rmd #Project diary Rmarkdown
├── 7. Project Diary.pdf #Project diary pdf
├── CancerRF.Rproj
├── README.md
├── data
│   ├── clean #clean datasets
│   └── raw #raw datasets
├── reference
│   ├── apa-6th-edition.csl #reference APA style 
│   └── myref.bib #references
├── renv
│   ├── activate.R # replicate project environment with renv
│   ├── library
│   ├── settings.json
│   └── staging
├── renv.lock #detailed environment info
└── tools 
    ├── cancer_overview.R #customized functions for Report Rmd
    ├── correlation_analysis.R #customized functions for Report Rmd
    ├── data_wrangling.R
    └── myfuns.R #customized functions for Cancer Overview analysis jupyter notebook
```


# Environment setup for this project

R dependencies are specified in renv/activate.R, including the required packages and their versions. It will run automatically when use Rstudio to open the R project, as set in .Rprofile. To replicate this project, run this file to ensure the correct package versions are installed.

**Please Note**: It may take a long time to connect to R kernel when launching jupyer notebook with renv environment set up. Please disable "source("renv/activate.R")" in *.Rprofile* if you don't want to replicate Project environment.


# Reproduction Instructions

To reproduce this project:
1.	Run renv/activate.R to install R dependencies.
2.	Run the notebooks in the specified order: 1.1, 1.2, 2, 3.1, and 3.2.
3.	Some function will be loaed from R files. If you want to know about details, R files in *tools/myfuns.R* is helpful.

Project Components

**Data Wrangling**:
`1.1 Data_wrangling_Julia.ipynb`: Julia notebook for preprocessing and cleaning cancer-related datasets.
`1.2 Data wrangling-Risk Factors-R.ipynb`: R notebook for recoding, reshaping, and summarizing risk factor data, followed by joining with cancer-related datasets.

**Statistical Analysis and Correlation Analysis**:
`2. Cancer overview analysis-R.ipynb`: R notebook for statistical analysis and visualization of the processed data.
`3.1 Correlation analysis and visualization_R.ipynb`: R notebook for correlation analysis and visualization.
`3.2 Visualization_Julia.ipynb`: Julia notebook for overall visualization of additional

**Reporting**:
`4. Reports.pdf`: PDF version of the report, consisting of background, method, results, discussion. This file is generated by `4. Reports.Rmd`, and rendering configurations are in the `reference` folder,.

**Data Documentation**: 
`5. Data documentation`: Detailed data documentations.

**Diary**: 
`7.-Project-Diary.pdf`:PDF version of the diary, generated by `7. Project Diary.Rmd`

**Data**:  
The data folder includes all raw and clean datasets of this project. 




